Business Context
A sales forecast predicts future sales revenue based on historical data, industry trends, and the status of the current sales pipeline. Businesses use the sales forecast to estimate weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual sales totals. A company needs to make an accurate sales forecast as it adds value across an organization and helps the different verticals to chalk out their future course of action.
Forecasting helps an organization plan its sales operations by region and provides valuable insights to the supply chain team regarding the procurement of goods and materials. An accurate sales forecast process has many benefits, which include improved decision-making about the future and the reduction of sales pipeline and forecast risks. Moreover, it helps to reduce the time spent in planning territory coverage and establishes benchmarks that can be used to assess trends in the future.

Objective
SuperKart is a retail chain operating supermarkets and food marts across various tier cities, offering a wide range of products. To optimize its inventory management and make informed decisions around regional sales strategies, SuperKart wants to accurately forecast the sales revenue of its outlets for the upcoming quarter.
To operationalize these insights at scale, the company has partnered with a data science firm, not just to build a predictive model based on historical sales data but also to develop and deploy a robust forecasting solution that can be integrated into SuperKart’s decision-making systems and used across its network of stores.
